Centralise and improve documentation on Coq (#5755)
ocaml/dune: doc/coq.rst

.. _coq:

***
Coq
***

.. contents:: Table of Contents
    :depth: 3

Introduction
------------

Dune is able to build Coq theories and plugins with support for source file

> preprocessing, and extraction.

Reviewer: Maybe add `.mlg file preprocessing`, otherwise the sentence seems too vague to me.

A *Coq theory* is a collection of ``.v`` files, perhaps in several directories,

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Reviewer: Be more explicit.

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Author: How is this too vague or broad? What else can a Coq theory be? Even if the .v files are generated, they are still there.

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Reviewer: The generated part seems redundant, but that has been a long time FAQ so IMHO it can't hurt to clarity that here for people not familiar with dune.

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Author: Who is generating .v files?

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Reviewer: Off the top of my head BedRock people, most MIT projects, OTT users, and likely I miss some.

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Author: Right, but I am unaware that any of these projects use `dune`'s `coq.theory`.

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Author: Why complicate the text here?

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Reviewer: You are unaware but at least some of them (private) use it. It is not easy indeed to write this text, maybe we can add instead a separate sentence at the end. "Note that .v files, as usual in Dune, can originate from the source tree, or be generated by a user rule"

> all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the directory hierarchy for

Reviewer: The reason I ask this is that people coming from make fail to consistently understand that dune will do a glob over the full set of targets, instead of the filesystem users can see.

module names.

A *Coq plugin* is an OCaml :ref:`library`, that is intended to be depended on
by a Coq theory, and is typically linked with the Coq OCaml API.

A *Coq project* is a collection of Coq plugins and Coq theories. This notion is
subsumed by that of a :ref:`dune-project`, and should not be considered a
technical definition.

.. _coq-theory:

coq.theory
----------

To enable Coq related stanzas in a Dune project. The Coq language version should
be selected in the :ref:`dune-project` file. For example:

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.3)

This will allow for the ``coq.theory`` stanza and other ``coq.*`` stanzas to be

> included in the current project. See the :ref:`Dune Coq language

Author: Either way, dune will complain if the stanzas are present.

> included in the current project. See the :ref:`Dune Coq language

Reviewer: Yes, I just wonder what's the right terminology here.

> included in the current project. See the :ref:`Dune Coq language

Reviewer: As we have for example `(include ...)` as a stanza itself, that may sound ambigous?

~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``.v`` files always depend on the native OCaml version of the Coq binary and
  its plugins, unless the natively compiled versions are not available.

.. _limitation-mlpack:

- A ``foo.mlpack`` file must the present in directories of locally defined
  plugins for things to work. This is a limitation of ``coqdep``.

.. _coq-lang:

Coq Language Version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Coq lang can be modified by adding the following to a :ref:`dune-project`
file:

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.3)

The supported Coq language versions (not the version of Coq) are:

- ``0.1``: Basic Coq theory support.
- ``0.2``: Support for the ``theories`` field and composition of theories in the
  same scope,
- ``0.3``: Support for ``(mode native)`` requires Coq >= 8.10 (and Dune >= 2.9
  for Coq >= 8.14).

Guarantees with respect to stability are not yet provided. However, as the
development of features progresses, we hope to reach ``1.0`` soon. The ``1.0``
version of Coq lang will commit to a stable set of functionality. All the
features below are expected to reach ``1.0`` unchanged or minimally modified.

Best Practices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We recommend the following guidelines:

> 

Author: OK I've added it to limitations.

.. _coq:

***
Coq
***

.. contents:: Table of Contents
    :depth: 3

Introduction
------------

Dune is able to build Coq theories and plugins with support for extraction and
.mlg file preprocessing.

A *Coq theory* is a collection of ``.v`` files, perhaps in several
subdirectories, all prefixed by a common Coq module name, following the
directory hierarchy for module names.

A *Coq plugin* is an OCaml :ref:`library`, that is intended to be dynamically
loaded by Coq at runtime when compiling a Coq theory, and is typically linked
with the Coq OCaml API.

We may indistinctively refer to a :ref:`dune-project` containing Coq theories as
a *Coq project*.

A *Coq project* is a collection of Coq plugins and Coq theories. This notion is
subsumed by that of a :ref:`dune-project`, and should not be considered a
technical definition.

The ``.v`` files of a theory do not only have to be present as source files.
They may also be created as Dune targets from other rules.

.. _coq-theory:

coq.theory
----------

> To enable Coq support in a Dune project. The Coq language version should be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enables Coq support in a Dune project. The Coq language version should be
```

Author: I will reorder the information here. coq.theory is not being discussed immediately, but instead what you need to include in your dune project in order to enable its use. It is a sort of mini introduction.

I've separated these parts so that it reads more clearly.

selected in the :ref:`dune-project` file. For example:

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.3)

> This will allow for the ``coq.theory`` stanza and other ``coq.*`` stanzas to be
> used in the current project. See the :ref:`Dune Coq language section<coq-lang>`
> for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This enables using the ``coq.theory`` stanza and other ``coq.*`` stanzas.
See the :ref:`Dune Coq language<coq-lang>` section
for more details.
```

The Coq theory stanza is very similar in form to the OCaml :ref:`library`
stanza:

.. code:: scheme

    (coq.theory
     (name <module_prefix>)
     (package <package>)
     (synopsis <text>)
     (modules <ordered_set_lang>)
     (libraries <ocaml_libraries>)
     (flags <coq_flags>)
     (mode <coq_native_mode>)
     (theories <coq_theories>))

The stanza will build all ``.v`` files in the given directory and also all
subdirs if the :ref:`include-subdirs <include-subdirs-coq>` stanza is present.
The semantics of fields are:

- ``<module_prefix>`` is a dot-separated list of valid Coq module names and
  determines the module scope under which the theory is compiled (this
  corresponds to Coq's ``-R`` option).
  
  For example, if ``<module_prefix>`` is ``foo.Bar``, the theory modules will be
  named as ``foo.Bar.module1``, ``foo.Bar.module2``, etc. Note that modules in
  the same theory don't see the ``foo.Bar`` prefix in the same way that OCaml
  ``wrapped`` libraries do.
  

>   For compatibility reasons, Coq lang 1.0 will install a theory named

Reviewer 2: Maybe "Coq language version 1.0" and hyperlink to "(using coq 0.3)" above.

Author: Coq lang 1.0 is a hypothetical "out of experimentation" version that Emilio came up with intending to describe features that will stabilize. I think I will link to the Coq Dune lang section, and describe there, a little more, that hypothetical.

  ``foo.Bar`` under ``foo/Bar``. Also note that Coq supports composing a module
  path from different theories, thus you can name a theory ``foo.Bar`` and a
  second one ``foo.Baz``, and dune will compose these properly.

- The ``modules`` field allows one to constrain the set of modules included in

>   the theory, similarly to its OCaml counterpart. Modules are specified in Coq

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the theory, similar to its OCaml counterpart. Modules are specified in Coq
```

  notation. That is to say, ``A/b.v`` is written ``A.b`` in this field.

> - If ``package`` is present, Dune will generate install rules for the ``.vo``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If ``package`` is present, Dune generates install rules for the ``.vo``
```

  files of the theory. ``pkg_name`` must be a valid package name.
  

>   Note that Coq lang 1.0 will use the Coq legacy install setup, where all

Reviewer 2: "Coq lang 1.0" see above comment

  packages share a common root namespace and install directory,
  ``lib/coq/user-contrib/<module_prefix>``, as customary in the Make-based Coq
  package ecosystem.
  

>   For compatibility, we also install under the ``user-contrib`` prefix the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For compatibility, dune also installs under the ``user-contrib`` prefix the
```

  ``.cmxs`` files that appear in ``<ocaml_libraries>``,

> - ``<coq_flags>`` will be passed to ``coqc`` as command-line options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``<coq_flags>`` is passed to ``coqc`` as command-line options.
```

It think it's simpler to use the present tense rather than the future.  I see a lot of future tense here.

  ``:standard`` is taken from the value set in the ``(coq (flags <flags>))``
  field in ``env`` profile. See :ref:`dune-env` for more information.

- The path to the ``<ocaml_libraries>`` installed locations will be passed to
  ``coqdep`` and ``coqc`` using Coq's ``-I`` flag; this allows for a Coq theory
  to depend on an ML library, making it a Coq plugin.

- Your Coq theory can depend on other theories by specifying them in the
  ``<coq_theories>`` field. Dune will then pass to Coq the corresponding flags
  for everything to compile correctly (this corresponds to the ``-Q`` flag for

>   Coq).

Reviewer 2: I suggest providing concrete examples as I'm not quite sure what you have in mind.  Introducing the "theory" terminology that's not used in the Coq doc is dreadful, nor is precisely defined here.  It is quite confusing.

Suppose your development project requires fiat-crypto.  If that's an installed package in Coq, dune shouldn't attempt to rebuild it.  On the other hand, if you're maintaining fiat-crypto, it may not be installed, in which case you might want a build of the `Foo` Coq module that depends on fiat-crypto to trigger a build of fiat-crypto.  Think you need to explain this.

>   As of today, we only support composition with libraries defined in the same

Reviewer 2: Coq users won't know exactly what you mean by "composition".  They shouldn't have to search through this doc to find out what it means--they don't want to read any more of this doc than they have to (it's a reference manual).

  scope (i.e. under the same :ref:`dune-project` domain). This restriction will
  be lifted in the future. Note that composition with the Coq standard library
  is supported, but in this case the ``Coq`` prefix has been made available in a
  qualified way, since Coq lang 0.2.

- You can enable the production of Coq's native compiler object files by setting
  ``<coq_native_mode>`` to ``native``. This will pass ``-native-compiler on`` to
  Coq and install the corresponding object files under ``.coq-native``, when in
  the ``release`` profile. The regular ``dev`` profile will skip native
  compilation to make the build faster. This has been available since Coq lang
  0.3.

  Please note: support for ``native_compute`` is **experimental** and requires

>   Coq >= 8.12.1. Furthermore, dependant libraries *must* be built with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Coq >= 8.12.1. Furthermore, dependent libraries *must* be built with the
```

> "Dependent" is the dominant form in American English for both the noun and adjective, while in British English, "dependant" is more common for the noun.

  ``(mode native)`` enabled. In Addition to that, Coq must be configured to
  support native compilation. Dune will explicitly disable the generation of
  native compilation objects when ``(mode vo)`` is enabled, irrespective of the
  configuration of Coq. This will be improved in the future.

.. _include-subdirs-coq:

Recursive Qualification of Modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you add:

.. code:: scheme

    (include_subdirs qualified)

to a :ref:`dune file<dune-files>`, Dune will consider all the modules in the
directory and its subdirectories, adding a prefix to the module name in the
usual Coq style for subdirectories. For example, file ``A/b/C.v`` will be module
``A.b.C``.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``.v`` files always depend on the native OCaml version of the Coq binary and

>   its plugins, unless the natively compiled versions are not available.

Reviewer 2: "unless .. not available" is a bit of a double negative.  Can you state differently?

  extracted.

- ``<optional-fields>`` are ``flags``, ``theories``, and ``libraries``. All of
  these fields have the same meaning as in the ``coq.theory`` stanza.

The extracted sources can then be used in ``executable`` or ``library`` stanzas
as any other sources.

Note that the sources are extracted to the directory where the ``prelude`` file
lives. Thus the common placement for the ``OCaml`` stanzas is in the same
:ref:`dune file<dune-files>`.

**Warning**: using Coq's ``Cd`` command to work around problems with the output
directory is not allowed when using extraction from Dune. Moreover the ``Cd``
command has been deprecated in Coq 8.12.

.. _coq-pp:

coq.pp
------

Authors of Coq plugins often need to write ``.mlg`` files to extend the Coq
grammar. Such files are preprocessed with the ``coqpp`` binary. To help plugin
authors avoid writing boilerplate, we provide a ``(coqpp ...)`` stanza:

.. code:: scheme

    (coq.pp (modules <mlg_list>))

which, for each ``g_mod`` in ``<mlg_list>``, is equivalent to the following
rule:

.. code:: lisp

    (rule
     (targets g_mod.ml)
     (deps (:mlg-file g_mod.mlg))
     (action (run coqpp %{mlg-file})))

> Examples of Coq Projects

Reviewer 2: You should mention the examples above and hyperlink to them.  The preceding text will make more sense if read with the examples.

Author: I've added some more hyperlinks.

  of the theory. ``pkg_name`` must be a valid package name.
  
  Note that :ref:`Coq lang 1.0<coq-lang-1.0>` will use the Coq legacy install
  setup, where all packages share a common root namespace and install directory,
  ``lib/coq/user-contrib/<module_prefix>``, as is customary in the Make-based
  Coq package ecosystem.
  
  For compatibility, Dune also installs, under the ``user-contrib`` prefix, the
  ``.cmxs`` files that appear in ``<ocaml_libraries>``.

- ``<coq_flags>`` are passed to ``coqc`` as command-line options. ``:standard``
  is taken from the value set in the ``(coq (flags <flags>))`` field in ``env``
  profile. See :ref:`dune-env` for more information.

- The path to the installed locations of the ``<ocaml_libraries>`` is passed to
  ``coqdep`` and ``coqc`` using Coq's ``-I`` flag. This allows a Coq theory to
  depend on an OCaml library.

- Your Coq theory can depend on other theories by specifying them in the
  ``<coq_theories>`` field. Dune then passes to Coq the corresponding flags for
  everything to compile correctly (this corresponds to the ``-Q`` flag for Coq).
  
  As of today, we only support composition with libraries defined in the same

>   scope (i.e. under the same :ref:`dune-project` domain). This restriction will

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  scope (i.e., under the same :ref:`dune-project` domain). This restriction will
```

  be lifted in the future. Note that composition with the Coq standard library
  is supported, but in this case the ``Coq`` prefix has been made available in a
  qualified way, since :ref:`Coq lang 0.2<coq-lang>`.

- You can enable the production of Coq's native compiler object files by setting
  ``<coq_native_mode>`` to ``native``. This passes ``-native-compiler on`` to
  Coq and install the corresponding object files under ``.coq-native``, when in
  the ``release`` profile. The regular ``dev`` profile skips native compilation
  to make the build faster. This has been available since :ref:`Coq lang
  0.3<coq-lang>`.

  Please note: support for ``native_compute`` is **experimental** and requires a
  version of Coq later than 8.12.1. Furthermore, dependent libraries *must* be

>   built with the ``(mode native)`` enabled. In Addition to that, Coq must be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  built with the ``(mode native)`` enabled. In addition to that, Coq must be
```

- Building a theory and a plugin in the same directory can lead to issues with
  the presence of the META file. We recommend the following:
  - A separate directory for the files of each :ref:`coq-theory` stanza defined.
  - A separate directory for source files of a plugin.

.. _coq-lang:

Coq Language Version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Coq lang can be modified by adding the following to a :ref:`dune-project`
file:

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.3)

The supported Coq language versions (not the version of Coq) are:

- ``0.1``: Basic Coq theory support.
- ``0.2``: Support for the ``theories`` field and composition of theories in the
  same scope,
- ``0.3``: Support for ``(mode native)`` requires Coq >= 8.10 (and Dune >= 2.9
  for Coq >= 8.14).

.. _coq-lang-1.0:

Coq Language Version 1.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Guarantees with respect to stability are not yet provided. However, as the
development of features progresses, we hope to reach ``1.0`` soon. The ``1.0``
version of Coq lang will commit to a stable set of functionality. All the
features below are expected to reach ``1.0`` unchanged or minimally modified.

.. _coq-extraction:

> coq.extraction

Reviewer 3: Same as above, if it can be wrapped in monospace, but no worries if it can't.

--------------

Coq may be instructed to *extract* OCaml sources as part of the compilation
process by using the ``coq.extraction`` stanza:

.. code:: scheme

   (coq.extraction
    (prelude <name>)
    (extracted_modules <names>)
    <optional-fields>)

- ``(prelude <name>)`` refers to the Coq source that contains the extraction
  commands.

- ``(extracted_modules <names>)`` is an exhaustive list of OCaml modules
  extracted.

- ``<optional-fields>`` are ``flags``, ``theories``, and ``libraries``. All of
  these fields have the same meaning as in the ``coq.theory`` stanza.

The extracted sources can then be used in ``executable`` or ``library`` stanzas
as any other sources.

Note that the sources are extracted to the directory where the ``prelude`` file
lives. Thus the common placement for the ``OCaml`` stanzas is in the same
:ref:`dune<dune-files>` file.

**Warning**: using Coq's ``Cd`` command to work around problems with the output
directory is not allowed when using extraction from Dune. Moreover the ``Cd``
command has been deprecated in Coq 8.12.

.. _coq-pp:

> coq.pp

Reviewer 3: Ditto for monospace

.. code:: scheme

  ; A/dune
  (include_subdirs qualified)
  (coq.theory
   (name A))

  ; B/dune
  (coq.theory
   (name B)
   (theories A))

Notice the ``theories`` field in ``B`` allows one :ref:`coq-theory` to depend on
another. Another thing to note is the inclusion of the :ref:`include_subdirs`
stanza. This allows our theory to have :ref:`multiple
subdirectories<include-subdirs-coq>`. 

Here are the contents of the ``.v`` files:

.. code:: coq
  
  (* A/AA/aa.v is empty *)

  (* A/AB/ab.v *)
  Require Import AA.aa.

  (* B/b.v *)
  From A Require Import AB.ab.

This causes a dependency chain ``b.v -> ab.v -> aa.v``. Now we might be
interested in building theory ``B``, so all we have to do is run ``dune build
B``. Dune will automatically build the theory ``A`` since it is a dependency.

.. _running-coq-top:

Running a Coq Toplevel
----------------------

Dune supports running a Coq toplevel binary such as ``coqtop``, which is
typically used by editors such as CoqIDE or Proof General to interact with Coq.

The following command:

.. code:: bash

   $ dune coq top <file> -- <args>

runs a Coq toplevel (``coqtop`` by default) on the given Coq file ``<file>``,

> after having re-compiled its dependencies as necessary. The given arguments

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
after having recompiled its dependencies as necessary. The given arguments
```

.. _coq:

***
Coq
***

.. contents:: Table of Contents
    :depth: 3

Introduction
------------

Dune can build Coq theories and plugins with additional support for extraction
and ``.mlg`` file preprocessing.

> A *Coq theory* is a collection of ``.v`` files all prefixed by a common Coq
> module prefix, following the directory hierarchy for module names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A *Coq theory* is a collection of ``.v`` files that generate Coq modules whose
names that share a common prefix.  The module names reflect the directory
hierarchy.
```

Reviewer: I think that writing ".v files generate modules" is kinda misleading. .v files are modules (special ones tho)

> A *Coq plugin* is an OCaml :ref:`library` that is intended to be dynamically
> loaded by Coq at runtime when compiling a Coq theory, which is typically linked
> with the OCaml Coq API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A *Coq plugin* is an OCaml :ref:`library` that Coq can load dynamically
at runtime.  Plugins are typically linked with the Coq OCaml API.
```

Not just "compiling", which doesn't include the IDEs.

Reviewer: Better yes!

A *Coq project* is an informal term for a :ref:`dune-project` containing a
collection of Coq theories and plugins.

The ``.v`` files of a theory need not be present as source files. They may also
be Dune targets of other rules.

> To enable Coq support in a Dune project. The :ref:`Coq language
> version<coq-lang>` should be selected in the :ref:`dune-project` file. For
> example, adding:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable Coq support in a Dune project, specify the :ref:`Coq language
version<coq-lang>` in the :ref:`dune-project` file. For
example, adding:
```

  :ref:`a multi-theory<example-multi-theory>` Coq project for this.

- The ``modules`` field allows one to constrain the set of modules included in
  the theory, similar to its OCaml counterpart. Modules are specified in Coq
  notation. That is to say, ``A/b.v`` is written ``A.b`` in this field.

- If ``package`` is present, Dune generates install rules for the ``.vo`` files
  of the theory. ``pkg_name`` must be a valid package name.
  
  Note that :ref:`Coq lang 1.0<coq-lang-1.0>` will use the Coq legacy install
  setup, where all packages share a common root namespace and install directory,
  ``lib/coq/user-contrib/<module_prefix>``, as is customary in the Make-based
  Coq package ecosystem.
  
  For compatibility, Dune also installs, under the ``user-contrib`` prefix, the
  ``.cmxs`` files that appear in ``<ocaml_libraries>``.

- ``<coq_flags>`` are passed to ``coqc`` as command-line options. ``:standard``
  is taken from the value set in the ``(coq (flags <flags>))`` field in ``env``
  profile. See :ref:`dune-env` for more information.

- The path to the installed locations of the ``<ocaml_libraries>`` is passed to

>   ``coqdep`` and ``coqc`` using Coq's ``-I`` flag. This allows for a Coq theory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ``coqdep`` and ``coqc`` using Coq's ``-I`` flag. This allows a Coq theory
```

module ``A.b.C``.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``.v`` files always depend on the native OCaml version of the Coq binary and
  its plugins, unless the natively compiled versions are missing.

.. _limitation-mlpack:

- A ``foo.mlpack`` file must the present in directories of locally defined
  plugins for things to work. This is a limitation of ``coqdep``.

- Building a theory and a plugin in the same directory can lead to issues with
  the presence of the META file. We recommend the following:
  - A separate directory for the files of each :ref:`coq-theory` stanza defined.
  - A separate directory for source files of a plugin.

.. _coq-lang:

Coq Language Version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Coq lang can be modified by adding the following to a :ref:`dune-project`
file:

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.3)

The supported Coq language versions (not the version of Coq) are:

- ``0.1``: Basic Coq theory support.
- ``0.2``: Support for the ``theories`` field and composition of theories in the
  same scope,
- ``0.3``: Support for ``(mode native)`` requires Coq >= 8.10 (and Dune >= 2.9
  for Coq >= 8.14).

.. _coq-lang-1.0:

> Coq Language Version 1.0
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Coq Language Version 1.0 (planned)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Is 1.0 planned or experimental/under development?  i.e., will dune accept "1.0" as the language version _today_?
The challenge in describing functionality that's not yet complete are a) it may still change, so you need an extra pass on the doc and b) users may misread the doc and expect the future items already work.

> Guarantees with respect to stability are not yet provided. However, as the
> development of features progresses, we hope to reach ``1.0`` soon. The ``1.0``
> version of Coq lang will commit to a stable set of functionality. All the
> features below are expected to reach ``1.0`` unchanged or minimally modified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``1.0`` is still under development, so you may encounter issues using it.
There may be further changes to the features described below.
```

Think that's all the user needs to know (if I've stated the facts correctly).

Reviewer: I think it may make sense to state that 1.0 will provide strong compat guarantees, so the user knows what to expect if they follow along. Also, I think it is very important to note that 0.3 etc... don't provide a lot of guaranttes. Not sure the reduced version conveys these points in full.

Reviewer 2: Up to you guys, but I think compatibility is the default for Coq development if we don't state otherwise, plus we give deprecation warnings & try to make it easy to migrate to newer versions.  I'd hope that applies to Coq related parts of dinner, too.

:ref:`dune file<dune-files>`.

**Warning**: using Coq's ``Cd`` command to work around problems with the output
directory is not allowed when using extraction from Dune. Moreover the ``Cd``
command has been deprecated in Coq 8.12.

.. _coq-pp:

coq.pp
------

Authors of Coq plugins often need to write ``.mlg`` files to extend the Coq
grammar. Such files are preprocessed with the ``coqpp`` binary. To help plugin
authors avoid writing boilerplate, we provide a ``(coqpp ...)`` stanza:

.. code:: scheme

    (coq.pp (modules <mlg_list>))

which, for each ``g_mod`` in ``<mlg_list>``, is equivalent to the following
rule:

.. code:: lisp

    (rule
     (targets g_mod.ml)
     (deps (:mlg-file g_mod.mlg))
     (action (run coqpp %{mlg-file})))

.. _examples:

Examples of Coq Projects
------------------------

Here we list some examples of some basic Coq project setups in order.

.. _example-simple:

Simple Coq Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let us start with a simple project. First we make sure we have a
:ref:`dune-project` file with a :ref:`Coq lang<coq-lang>` stanza present:

.. code:: scheme

  (lang dune 3.2)
  (using coq 0.3)

> Next we need a :ref:`dune file<dune-files>` with a :ref:`coq-theory` stanza:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next we need a :ref:`dune<dune-files>` file with a :ref:`coq-theory` stanza:
```

.. code:: scheme
  
  (coq.theory
   (name myTheory))

Finally, we need a Coq ``.v`` file which we name ``A.v``:

.. code:: coq

  (** This is my def *)
  Definition mydef := nat.

Now we run ``dune build``. After this is complete, we get the following files:

.. code::

  .
  ├── A.v
  ├── _build
  │   ├── default
  │   │   ├── A.glob
  │   │   ├── A.v
  │   │   ├── A.v.d
  │   │   └── A.vo
  │   └── log
  ├── dune
  └── dune-project

.. _example-multi-theory:

Multi-Theory Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here is an example of a more complicated setup:

.. code::

  .
  ├── A
  │   ├── AA
  │   │   └── aa.v
  │   ├── AB
  │   │   └── ab.v
  │   └── dune
  ├── B
  │   ├── b.v
  │   └── dune
  └── dune-project

> Here are the :ref:`dune files<dune-files>`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are the :ref:`dune<dune-files>` files:
```

.. code:: scheme

  ; A/dune
  (include_subdirs qualified)
  (coq.theory
   (name A))

  ; B/dune
  (coq.theory
   (name B)
   (theories A))

Notice the ``theories`` field in ``B`` allows one :ref:`coq-theory` to depend on

> another. Another thing to note is the inclusion of the :ref:`include_subdirs`

Reviewer 2: How do users identify the dependencies and update their dune files?  Will there be tooling to do that automatically?  I'm not sure how significant an issue this may be for users.

Reviewer: That's a bit of an art, and likely Dune won't be able to help a lot until 2.0 coq lang.

Reviewer 2: I thought it would be an update to coqdep.  Indeed, it might be cool if fine could read and apply coqdep output.  IIUC.

Reviewer: Oh, I misunderstood you. Dune of course calls coqdep to find dependencies of .v files, `(theories ...)` is for dependency on theories, that is to say, to put in scope whole set of compiled files into a prefix, that is to say, `-Q`.

Now, dune can't help a lot the user to know where a particular module is in terms of theories/packages.

Reviewer 2: The idea is to enhance coqdoc so it can tell you what top-level modules/packages it depends on--the bits that need to appear in -Q options.  It could look at _CoqProject files and/or in the Coq loadpath.  (handwaving here)

stanza. This allows our theory to have :ref:`multiple
subdirectories<include-subdirs-coq>`. 

Here are the contents of the ``.v`` files:

.. code:: coq
  
  (* A/AA/aa.v is empty *)

  (* A/AB/ab.v *)
  Require Import AA.aa.

  (* B/b.v *)
  From A Require Import AB.ab.

This causes a dependency chain ``b.v -> ab.v -> aa.v``. Now we might be
interested in building theory ``B``, so all we have to do is run ``dune build
B``. Dune will automatically build the theory ``A`` since it is a dependency.

.. _running-coq-top:

Running a Coq Toplevel
----------------------

Dune supports running a Coq toplevel binary such as ``coqtop``, which is

> typically used by editors such as CoqIDE or Proof General to interact with Coq.

Author: This one requires some explanation since it is a little confusing otherwise. @rlepigre addeda command called `dune coq top` to dune earlier this year. The intention was to get PG to interface with dune. As you might know, PG does not use coqidetop but rather a separate mode on coqtop directly. This command allows calling coqtop on a file, and rebuilding what is necessary. AFAIK it is working well for users using emacs/PG.

This isn't to say that the command name isn't confusing however. I hope that in the future, we can also support coqidetop using this command, which would allow for some editor integration with dune. I don't think this command is intended for use by regular users, rather just a technical backend for PG for the time being.

The command grouping is a little strange, but make sense from the point of view of dune. Subcommands define the scope of functionality of a program, so there was a choice between `dune coqtop` and `dune coq top`. The latter allows for more `coq` related commands to be included under this group. I have no plans for any coq commands in dune however, nor am I aware of any more.

> typically used by editors such as CoqIDE or Proof General to interact with Coq.

Reviewer 4: > @Zimmi48 It doesn't work unfortunately, though I am not sure what is wrong.

That is surprising, what have you tried?

My understanding is that `coqtop` and `coqidetop` are kind of compatible in terms of the command-line arguments they expect, so I would have expected `dune coq top --toplevel coqidetop some/file.v` to do the trick.

> typically used by editors such as CoqIDE or Proof General to interact with Coq.

Reviewer: Is the problem the one showcased in https://github.com/ocaml/dune/pull/5552 ?

We need to fix that one asap.

> typically used by editors such as CoqIDE or Proof General to interact with Coq.

Author: I don't remember if it was related to that. I will need to test further.

The following command:

.. code:: bash

>    $ dune coq top <file> -- <args>

Reviewer: Yes, `dune coq` is the entry point to several commands

>    $ dune coq top <file> -- <args>

Author: I've explained the reasoning in the other comment.

.. _coq:

***
Coq
***

Dune is able to build Coq projects and plugins with support for source file
preprocessing, extraction and documenation.

.. contents:: Table of Contents
    :depth: 3

.. _coq-theory:

coq.theory
----------

A Coq project consists of Coq ``.v`` files and optional OCaml libraries linking
to the Coq API (in which case we say the project is a *Coq plugin*). To enable

> Coq support in a Dune project, the language version should be selected in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Coq support in a Dune project. The language version should be selected in the
```

``dune-project`` file. For example:

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.3)

This will enable support for the ``coq.theory`` stanza in the current project.
If the language version is absent, Dune will automatically add this line with
the latest Coq version to the project file once a ``(coq.theory ...)`` stanza is
used anywhere.

The basic form for defining Coq libraries is very similar to the OCaml form:

.. code:: scheme

    (coq.theory
     (name <module_prefix>)
     (package <package>)
     (synopsis <text>)
     (modules <ordered_set_lang>)
     (libraries <ocaml_libraries>)
     (flags <coq_flags>)
     (mode <coq_native_mode>)
     (theories <coq_theories>))

The stanza will build all ``.v`` files on the given directory. The semantics of
fields are:

> - ``<module_prefix>`` is a dot-separated list of valid Coq module names and
>   determines the module scope under which the theory is compiled [``-R``
>   option]. For example, if ``<module_prefix>`` is ``foo.Bar``, the theory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``<module_prefix>`` is the module prefix for the Coq package (equivalent to the
  ``-R`` command line option passed to Coq).
  For example, if ``<module_prefix>`` is ``foo.Bar``, the theory
```
This terminology isn't very consistent with the terms we use in the Coq documentation.  It doesn't use "theory" in this sense at all.  The Coq documentation calls the result of compiling a project a package (as does OPAM).

BTW, shouldn't there be a way to specify -Q?

Author: I don't know if we define "theory" in the Coq documentation actually. Perhaps at the beginning I should mention that a collection of .v files is called a theory.

With regards to specifying -Q, the default is -Q for theories you depend on and -R for your own. By design this should nto be configurable. See https://github.com/ocaml/dune/issues/2585

Reviewer 2: I've not seen "theory" used this way in the Coq doc, and I've been looking at it quite a bit recently, so best not to introduce a new term.

Author: I am not the one to introduce this term, but I have given it a technically precise definition in the begining. @ejgallego what do you think?

  modules will be named as ``foo.Bar.module1``, ``foo.Bar.module2``, etc. Note
  that modules in the same theory don't see the ``foo.Bar`` prefix in the same
  way that OCaml ``wrapped`` libraries do. For compatibility reasons, the Coq
  v1.0 installs a theory named ``foo.Bar`` under ``foo/Bar``. Also note that Coq
  supports composing a module path from different theories, thus you can name a
  theory ``foo.Bar`` and a second one ``foo.Baz``, and things will work

>   properly.

Reviewer 2: "Coq v1.0" will be confusing for Coq users.  They expect something like "Coq v8.15".

I think it's a mistake to try to explain Coq concepts here--that should be in the Coq documentation only.

Author: It shouldn't be Coq v1.0 but rather Coq lang v1.0. We use versioning for the coq parts of dune so that files can cleanly reject unsupported features on older versions of dune.

Author: I've updated this.

- The ``modules`` field enables constraining the set of modules included in the
  theory, similarly to its OCaml counterpart. Modules are specified in Coq
  notation. That is to say, ``A/b.v`` is written ``A.b`` in this field.

- If ``package`` is present, Dune will generate install rules for the ``.vo``
  files on the theory. ``pkg_name`` must be a valid package name. Note that Coq
  v1.0 uses the Coq legacy install setup, where all packages share a common root
  namespace and install directory, ``lib/coq/user-contrib/<module_prefix>``, as
  customary in the Make-based Coq package ecosystem. For compatibility, we also
  install under the ``user-contrib`` prefix the ``.cmxs`` files that appear in
  ``<ocaml_libraries>``,

- ``<coq_flags>`` will be passed to ``coqc`` as command-line options.
  ``:standard`` is taken from the value set in the ``(coq (flags <flags>))``
  field in ``env`` profile. See :ref:`dune-env` for more information.

- The path to the ``<ocaml_libraries>`` installed locations will be passed to
  ``coqdep`` and ``coqc`` using Coq's ``-I`` flag; this allows for a Coq theory

>   to depend on a ML plugin,

Author: I agree with `an`.

- Your Coq theory can depend on other theories by specifying them in the
  ``<coq_theories>`` field. Dune will then pass to Coq the corresponding flags
  for everything to compile correctly [ ``-Q`` ]. As of today, we only support

>   composition with libraries defined in the same scope (that is to say, under

Reviewer 3: @ @
```suggestion
  composition with libraries defined in the same scope (i.e., under
```

  the same ``dune-project`` domain). We will lift this restriction in the
  future. Note that composition with the Coq's standard library is supported,
  but in this case the ``Coq`` prefix will be made available in a qualified way,
  since Coq lang 0.2.

- You can enable the production of Coq's native compiler object files by setting
  ``<coq_native_mode>`` to ``native``. This will pass ``-native-compiler on`` to
  Coq and install the corresponding object files under ``.coq-native``, when in
  ``release`` profile. The regular ``dev`` profile will skip native compilation
  to make the build faster, available since Coq v0.3.

>   Please note: support for native compute is **experimental**, and requires Coq

Reviewer 3: Should this be “native compute” or “native computers” or “native computation” or “native computing”? …or even “native compilation,” as below? Just ensuring it isn’t a typo.

Author: I believe it is referring to the `native_compute` tactic from Coq, but I think replacing it with "native compilation" is sensible.

Author: cc @ejgallego

>   >= 8.12.1; moreover, depending libraries *must* be built with ``(mode

Author: or `dependant`?

  native)`` for this to work. Also, Coq must be configured to support native
  compilation. Note that Dune will explicitly disable output of native
  compilation objects when ``(mode vo)``, even if the default Coq's configure
  flag enabled it. This will be improved in the future.

Coq Documenation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Given a :ref:`coq-theory` stanza with ``name A``, dune will produce two

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Given a :ref:`coq-theory` stanza with ``name A``, Dune will produce two
```

Author: This confuses me, is it `dune` or `Dune` as a name?

Reviewer 3: It is confusing! When I went through all the Dune files a few months back, we had a discussion about this. Dune, capitalised like this, is the proper name of the build system. When talking about it as a whole, it's written Dune. When talking about the command or the `dune` file, it's wrapped in monospace like that. This gives a visual differentiation between them.

*directory targets*, ``A.html/`` and ``A.tex/``. HTML or LaTeX documenation for
a Coq theory may then be built by running ``dune build A.html`` or ``dune build
A.tex`` respectively (if the dune file for the theory is the current directory).

> There are also two aliases that can be called, which will build the HTML or

Author: > There are also two aliases, which when called, ...

Sounds a bit better to my ear.

> There are also two aliases that can be called, which will build the HTML or

Reviewer 3: There are also two aliases, which when called will build the HTML....
Like this? If so, that sounds good!

LaTeX documentation and these are ``@doc`` and ``@doc-latex`` respectively.

.. _include-subdirs-coq:

Recursive Qualification of Modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you add:

.. code:: scheme

    (include_subdirs qualified)

to a ``dune`` file, Dune will consider all the modules in the directory and its
subdirectories, adding a prefix to the module name in the usual Coq style for
subdirectories. For example, file ``A/b/C.v`` will be module ``A.b.C``.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

> - ``.v`` files always depend on the native version of Coq / plugins,

Author: ```suggestion
- ``.v`` files always depend on the native version of Coq / plugins,
```
@ejgallego Would you mind explaining this?

Reviewer: I mean that we always use `ltac_plugin.cmxs` and `coqc` instead of `ltac_plugin.cmo` and `coqc.byte`.

We could add a switch for this, not worth it IMO.

Author: OK I'll make that comment a bit clearer, but it is mostly an implementation detail of the plugin on the Coq side rather than something the dune users have to be aware of right.

Reviewer: Yes, tho some users may care that dune calls `coqc.byte` ? I don't think so, so indeed we can update the comment to say that "Dune works exclusively with the native-version of Coq, except when not available"

Tho that's a bit confusing... most people won't know what native version of Coq is, and moreover we got a problem with the confusion w.r.t. native compiler in Coq (which targets the OCaml native compiler)

Author: I will omit it for now.

.. _limitation-mlpack:

- A ``foo.mlpack`` file must the present in directories of locally defined
  plugins for things to work. This is a limitation of ``coqdep``. See the
  `example plugin`_ or the `this template <https://github.com/ejgallego/coq-plugin-template>`_.

Coq Language Version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The Coq lang can be modified by adding the following to a dune-project file:

Reviewer 3: Perfect! So it just needs to be wrapped in monospace like that. Thanks for clarifying!

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.3)

> The supported Coq language versions (not the version of Coq) are:

Reviewer 2: The terminology is confusing.

Author: Right. So there is a concept called "dune coq language" which records which dune coq stanzas are allowed in a file. If you have a file which says `(using coq 0.3)` but you are using a version of dune that doesn't support that version of the coq language, then you cannot use the dune file.

Reviewer: Yes, we can say "coq build language" or `(lang coq 0.3)` etc...

- ``0.1``: Basic Coq theory support.
- ``0.2``: Support for the ``theories`` field, and composition of theories in
  the same scope,
- ``0.3``: Support for ``(mode native)``, requires Coq >= 8.10 (and dune >= 2.9
  for Coq >= 8.14).

Guarantees with respect to stability are not provided yet; however, as
implementation of features progresses, we hope to reach ``1.0`` soon. The
``1.0`` version will commit to a stable set of functionality; all the features
below are expected to reach ``1.0`` unchanged or minimally modified.

Best Practices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We recommend the following guidelines:

> - A seperate directory for the files of each coq.theory stanza defined.
> - A seperate directory for source files of a plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A separate directory for the files of each coq.theory stanza defined.
- A separate directory for source files of a plugin.
```

  │   │   ├── A.glob
  │   │   ├── A.v
  │   │   ├── A.v.d
  │   │   └── A.vo
  │   └── log
  ├── dune
  └── dune-project

Multi-theory project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here is an example of a more complicated setup:

.. code::

  .
  ├── A
  │   ├── AA
  │   │   └── aa.v
  │   ├── AB
  │   │   └── ab.v
  │   └── dune
  ├── B
  │   ├── b.v
  │   └── dune
  └── dune-project

Here are the dune files:

.. code:: scheme

  ; A/dune
  (include_subdirs qualified)
  (coq.theory
   (name A))

  ; B/dune
  (coq.theory
   (name B)
   (theories A))

Notice the ``theories`` field in ``B`` which allows one :ref:`coq-theory` to depend
on another. Another thing to note is the :ref:`include-subdirs-coq` from the
:ref:`include_subdirs` stanza. This allows our theory to have multiple
subdirectories.

Here are the contents of the .v files:

.. code:: coq
  
  (* A/AA/aa.v is empty *)

  (* A/AB/ab.v *)
  Require Import AA.aa.

  (* B/b.v *)
  From A Require Import AB.ab.

This causes a dependency chain ``b.v -> ab.v -> aa.v``. Now we might be
interested in building theory ``B``, so all we have to do is run ``dune build
B``. Dune will automatically build the theory ``A`` since it is a dependency.

> Building documentation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Building Documentation
```

  A
  ├── AA
  │   ├── aa.glob
  │   ├── aa.v
  │   ├── aa.v.d
  │   └── aa.vo
  ├── AB
  │   ├── ab.glob
  │   ├── ab.v
  │   ├── ab.v.d
  │   └── ab.vo
  └── A.html
      ├── A.AA.aa.html
      ├── A.AB.ab.html
      ├── coqdoc.css
      ├── index.html
      └── toc.html

Way may also want to build the LaTeX documenation of the theory ``B``. For this
we can call ``dune build B/B.tex/``. If we want to build all the HTML
documentation targets then we can use the ``@doc`` alias as in ``dune build
@doc``. If we want to build all the LaTeX documenation then we use the
``@doc-latex`` alias instead.

.. _example plugin:

Coq plugin project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's build a simple Coq plugin to demonstrate how dune can handle this setup. 

.. code::

  .
  ├── dune-project
  ├── src
  │   ├── dune
  │   ├── hello_world.ml
  │   ├── my_plugin.mlpack
  │   └── syntax.mlg
  └── theories
      ├── dune
      └── UsingMyPlugin.v

Our dune-project will need to have a package for the plugin to sit in, otherwsie
Coq will not be able to find it.

.. code:: scheme

  (lang dune 3.2)
  (using coq 0.3)

  (package
   (name my-coq-plugin)
   (synopsis "My Coq Plugin")
   (depends coq-core))

> Now we have two directories, ``src/`` and ``theories/`` each with their own dune

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we have two directories, ``src/`` and ``theories/``, each with their own ``dune``
```

files. Let us begin with the plugin dune file:

.. code:: scheme

  (library
   (name my_plugin)
   (public_name my-coq-plugin.plugin)
   (synopsis "My Coq Plugin")
   (flags :standard -rectypes -w -27)
   (libraries coq-core.vernac))

  (coq.pp
   (modules syntax))

> Here we define a library using the :ref:`library` stanza. Importantly we

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here we define a library using the :ref:`library` stanza. Importantly, we
```

declared which external libraries we rely on and gave the library a

> ``public_name`` since this is how Coq will find it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``public_name``, since this is how Coq will find it.
```

> The :ref:`coq-pp` stanza allows ``src/syntax.mlg`` to be preproccessed, which for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The :ref:`coq-pp` stanza allows ``src/syntax.mlg`` to be preprocessed, which for
```

.. _coq:

***
Coq
***

Dune is able to build Coq projects and plugins with support for source file

> preprocessing, extraction, and documenation.

Reviewer: typo in documentation

.. contents:: Table of Contents
    :depth: 3

.. _coq-theory:

coq.theory
----------

A *Coq theory* is a collection of ``.v`` files. Together with OCaml libraries

> linking to the Coq API, a Coq theory is termed a *Coq plugin*. Both may also be

Reviewer: I think we can improve this a bit. A Coq theory is indeed a set of .v files in several directories, prefixed by a Coq Module name, and following the module hierachy that a directory sets.

A Coq plugin is just a regular OCaml library, and is unrelated to a Coq theory. A Coq theory may depend on a plugin.

I think it is not correct to say "A Coq theory is termed a Coq plugin".

A Coq project can be a collection of plugins and libraries, and other stuff indeed, but I'm not sure the term belongs here as it doesn't correspond to a notion more than actually a Coq project is really a Dune project.

> termed a *Coq Project*. To enable Coq support in a Dune project. The language

Reviewer: Maybe "to enable to Coq Dune language"? I'm not sure what the right terms are here.

version should be selected in the :ref:`dune-project` file. For example:

.. code:: scheme

    (using coq 0.3)

This will allow for the ``coq.theory`` stanza to be included in the current

> project.

Reviewer: Actually all the `(coq.* ...)` stanzas, which we have a few.

Author: Yes I noticed this. Do we want to list them one-by-one or just say `coq.*`?

> The basic form for defining Coq libraries is very similar to the OCaml form:

Reviewer: Coq libraries \to Coq theories

.. code:: scheme

    (coq.theory
     (name <module_prefix>)
     (package <package>)
     (synopsis <text>)
     (modules <ordered_set_lang>)
     (libraries <ocaml_libraries>)
     (flags <coq_flags>)
     (mode <coq_native_mode>)
     (theories <coq_theories>))

> The stanza will build all ``.v`` files on the given directory. The semantics of

Reviewer: in the given directory or also in the subdirs if recurse is enabled.

fields are:

- ``<module_prefix>`` is a dot-separated list of valid Coq module names and
  determines the module scope under which the theory is compiled (this
  corresponds to Coq's ``-R`` option).
  
  For example, if ``<module_prefix>`` is ``foo.Bar``, the theory modules will be
  named as ``foo.Bar.module1``, ``foo.Bar.module2``, etc. Note that modules in
  the same theory don't see the ``foo.Bar`` prefix in the same way that OCaml
  ``wrapped`` libraries do.
  
  For compatibility reasons, v1.0 of the Coq language for Dune will install a
  theory named ``foo.Bar`` under ``foo/Bar``. Also note that Coq supports
  composing a module path from different theories, thus you can name a theory
  ``foo.Bar`` and a second one ``foo.Baz``, and dune will compose these
  properly.

- The ``modules`` field allows one to constrain the set of modules included in
  the theory, similarly to its OCaml counterpart. Modules are specified in Coq
  notation. That is to say, ``A/b.v`` is written ``A.b`` in this field.

- If ``package`` is present, Dune will generate install rules for the ``.vo``
  files of the theory. ``pkg_name`` must be a valid package name.
  

>   Note that Coq v1.0 uses the Coq legacy install setup, where all packages share

Reviewer: note that  `(lang coq 1.0)`  will use , I think  we should reserve that from to denote upstream Coq versions.

Author: It's not `(lang coq 1.0)` tho, it's `(using coq 1.0)`.

  a common root namespace and install directory,
  ``lib/coq/user-contrib/<module_prefix>``, as customary in the Make-based Coq
  package ecosystem.
  
  For compatibility, we also install under the ``user-contrib`` prefix the
  ``.cmxs`` files that appear in ``<ocaml_libraries>``,

- ``<coq_flags>`` will be passed to ``coqc`` as command-line options.
  ``:standard`` is taken from the value set in the ``(coq (flags <flags>))``
  field in ``env`` profile. See :ref:`dune-env` for more information.

- The path to the ``<ocaml_libraries>`` installed locations will be passed to
  ``coqdep`` and ``coqc`` using Coq's ``-I`` flag; this allows for a Coq theory
  to depend on an ML library, making it a Coq plugin.

- Your Coq theory can depend on other theories by specifying them in the
  ``<coq_theories>`` field. Dune will then pass to Coq the corresponding flags
  for everything to compile correctly (this corresponds to the ``-Q`` flag for
  Coq).
  
  As of today, we only support composition with libraries defined in the same

>   scope (i.e. under the same :ref:`dune-project` domain). This restriction will

Author: I have not been able to work out how to do it I'm afraid.

>   scope (i.e. under the same :ref:`dune-project` domain). This restriction will

Reviewer 3: No worries, but the comma after i.e. is necessary.

>   scope (i.e. under the same :ref:`dune-project` domain). This restriction will

Author: Strange! I have done it though.

    (using coq 0.3)

This will allow for the ``coq.theory`` stanza to be included in the current
project. If the language version is absent, Dune will automatically add this
line with the latest Coq version to the project file once a ``(coq.theory ...)``

> stanza is used anywhere.

Author: @ejgallego I tested this and it doesn't seem to be the case so removing.

Reviewer 5: This misfeature was removed in 3.0
